# Voices-under-Threat
**Welcome as a helper to the Voices under Threat project!** 

We are glad you are here to join the effort to free knowledge all around the globe and keep all contributors to that goal safe!
 
Voices under Threat is a project run by the Trust and Safety team at the Wikimedia Foundation. The project lead is Christel Steigenberger, also known as Kritzolina. Together with volunteers and helpers like you, we want to find, build and collect resources to help individual contributors and groups supporting open knowledge who face external risks and threats, because they share knowledge freely. Some of you may know about [Bassel Khartabil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bassel_Khartabil) and his tragic death. But there are also other, less famous contributors that face pressure and dangers. Some because they edit articles on Wikipedia that have clear political content. Some because they upload pictures with free licenses that show truths which are unpleasant to people in power. Some for adding code to a project which helps such knowledge to be shared and spread. Some just because their governments do not like Wikipedia, or free and open knwoledge sharing in general.    
 
**We want to support those people**, because we believe all voices need to be heard in the free exchange of knowledge. We are missing essential contributions from voices that are silent because of fear and suppression. Even small steps to help people not to be afraid to share their knowledge and not get punished for doing so, will add up to a big difference for all of us.
 
**You can contribute** to this effort by showing us resources that can be shared publicly. Those resources could include **advice on data and communication safety** (like the Surveillance Self-Defense from EFF), **trainings on how to best apply and use recommended tools**, helplines for people under political pressure, possibilities to apply for emergency-funds (like the Urgent Action Fund) or any other thing that you think or know could be helpful in a difficult situation. **We will especially value any contributions of smaller, regional, very new or otherwise less known resources.** If you link to a project in a language other than English, it would be very nice of you to also leave a point of contact for us, if possible. 
 
We have created issues with first resources. You can just add whatever you have to share below the already listed resources. If you run into any technical problems, or if you know about a resource, but do not feel comfortable sharing it publicly because of safety concerns, feel free to reach out to me through email: CSteigenberger@wikimedia.org.

This project follows the [Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/ "Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines")
